---
title: Phases
sidebar: 06_sidebar
permalink: 0.6_phases.html
folder: release-0.6/userguide/definition
---

Conceptually the benchmark consists of several phases. Phases can run independently of each other;
these simulate certain load executed by a group of users (e.g. visitors vs. admins). Within one phase all users execute the same scenario (e.g. logging into the system, selling all their stock and then logging off).

Phases are also using for scaling the load during the benchmark; when looking for maximum throughput you schedule several iterations of given phase, gradually increasing the number of users that run the scenario.

These are different types of phases based on the mode of starting new users:

## constantPerSec

* The benchmark will start certain number of users according to a schedule regardless of previously started users completing the scenario. This is the open-model.

```yaml
Phases:
- PHASE_NAME:
    constantPerSec:
      usersPerSec: USERES_PER_SECOND
      duration: DURATION
      scenario: ...
```

Example: 

```yaml
Phases:
- steadyState:
    constantPerSec:
      usersPerSec: 100
      duration: 5m
      scenario: ...
```

## rampPerSec

* Similar to `constantPerSec` but ramps up or down the number of started users throughout the execution of the phase.

```yaml
Phases:
- PHASE_NAME:
    rampPerSec:
      initialUsersPerSec: INITIAL_USERES_PER_SECOND
      targetUsersPerSec: TARGET_USERES_PER_SECOND
      duration: DURATION
      scenario: ...
```

Example: 

```yaml
Phases:
- rampUp:
    rampPerSec:
      initialUsersPerSec: 1
      targetUsersPerSec: 100
      duration: 5m
      scenario: ...
```

## atOnce

* All users are started when the phase starts running and once the scenario is completed the users won't retry the scenario.

```yaml
Phases:
- PHASE_NAME:
    atOnce:
      users: TOTAL_USERS
      duration: DURATION
      scenario: ...
```

Example: 

```yaml
Phases:
- final:
    atOnce:
      users: 100
      duration: 5m
      scenario: ...
```

## always

* There is fixed number of users and once the scenario is completed the users will start executing the scenario from beginning. This is called a closed-model and is similar to the way many benchmarks with fixed number of threads work.

```yaml
Phases:
- PHASE_NAME:
    always:
      users: TOTAL_USERS
      duration: DURATION
      scenario: ...
```

Example: 

```yaml
Phases:
- final:
    always:
      users: 100
      duration: 5m
      scenario: ...
```

## Sessions

The state of each user's scenario is saved in the session; sometimes we speak about (re)starting sessions instead of starting new users. Hyperfoil tries to keep allocations during benchmark as low as possible and therefore it pre-allocates all memory for the scenario execution ahead. This is why all resources the benchmark uses are capped - it needs to know the sizes of pools.

It is also necessary to know how many sessions we should preallocate - maximum concurrency of the system. If this threshold is exceeded Hyperfoil allocates further session as needed, but this is not the optimal mode of operation. It means that either you've underestimated the resources need or you've put a load on the system that it can't handle anymore, requests are not being completed and scenarios are not finished - which means that session objects cannot be recylced for reuse by next user.

```yaml
Phases:
- PHASE_NAME:
    constantPerSec:
      usersPerSec: USERES_PER_SECOND
      duration: DURATION
      maxSessionsEstimate: MAX_SESSION
      scenario: ...
```

Example: 

```yaml
Phases:
- steadyState:
    constantPerSec:
      usersPerSec: 100
      duration: 5m
      maxSessionsEstimate: 200
      scenario: ...
```
