---
title: Design
sidebar: 06_sidebar
permalink: 0.6_design.html
folder: release-0.6/overview
---

## Lean and Light Weight

Our design principal is not to create a full-fledged domain specific language that supports every possible scenarios, but rather target on common scenarios support only so that the code is lean & performant.  When the scenario is complex & needs additional logics & functions, user is encouraged to create their own extensions to support their specific needs. Extension can be coded in Java or any other JVM languages.  Please see the Custom Extensions section for Java code examples. 

## Open System Model

Most of the traditional load drivers are based on virtual users (VUs) and simulated loads are created for a set number of VUs.  When a job is completed, these VUs are immediately reused to start the next job.  This is called Closed System Model.  In contrast, Open System Model sets the users per second independent to the job completion of each VUs.  If each scenario takes longer, more VUs are created to satisfy the `users per second` requirement. Hyperfoil utilizes netty & Vert.x (non-blocking, asynchronous, high performance, light weight) to perform this ashyncronous operation.  This model solves the [coordinated omission](https://www.azul.com/files/HowNotToMeasureLatency_LLSummit_NYC_12Nov2013.pdf) issue that is present in the Close System Model load driver & able to accurately addresses the performance issues.

## Keep Alive

Keep alive is used to achieve higher throughput and lower lentency by reusing the existing connections to stress underlining system by omitting the expensive initial hand shake. To perform a stress test or breakpoint test, this option is useful & able to achieve the results with less resources. To simulate a realistic application usage, keep alive should be used within the session for a series of actions, however, each sessions should not share the keep alive.  Hyperfoil is designed to have `keep alive` on by default, however, it has an option to
1. Close connection for every request
2. Share the keep alive within the same session but do not sure between different sessions.

## Reports

Hyperfoil summarizes reports per each HTTP requests, however, it does not provide total summary report.  This design enables user to determine exactly which HTTP request have performance degradation & improvement.  Total summary report hides issues in each HTTP request with the following resons:
1. It might look insignificant comparing with total amount of time it took
2. If one HTTP request regresses, but other HTTP request have improved performance, it will hide the regression issue.

Hyperfoil report separates Rampup results with actual measurment results, measurement results are more consistent.

It also provides the following:
1. Detailed histograms (min, max, mean response time as well as 50th, 90th, 99th, 99.9th, 99.99th percentiles )
2. HTTP status reporting (2xx, 3xx,4xx,5xx & others)
3. Detailed error codes (invalid, resetCount, timeouts, blockedCount, blockedTime)

## Benchmarks

Benchmark YAML can be uploaded from physical server where it hosts Hyperfoil, as well as using HTTP POST using Hyperfoil Controller REST API.  Hyperfoil Controller REST API provides 2 options to upload the benchmark:
1. Original YAML file
2. JSON syntax converted from original YAML file

JSON & YAML files have small footprints and also easily transferrable via HTTP POST operation, it is portable & does not have to be included to the driver server.  This makes Kubernetes integration simpler as Hyperfoil Kubernetes pod does not need to contain the benchmarks code (except custom extension).

