---
title: Installation
sidebar: 06_sidebar
permalink: 0.6_installation.html
folder: release-0.6/userguide
---

## Using the prebuilt release

Download the [latest release](https://github.com/Hyperfoil/Hyperfoil/releases/latest) and unpack it

```
> wget https://github.com/Hyperfoil/Hyperfoil/releases/download/release-0.6/hyperfoil-0.6.zip
    && unzip hyperfoil-0.6.zip
    && cd hyperfoil-0.6
```

## Building from sources

To use the latest code, clone the [github repository](https://github.com/Hyperfoil/Hyperfoil), then run the following command to build the binaries

```
mvn clean package -DskipTests=true
```

Installaton zip file can be found in `distribution/target/hyperfoil-X.X-SNAPSHOT.zip`.

## Required libraries

Java is required to execute Hyperfoil (If IBM Java does not work, use Oracle or Open JDK).
While all Java dependencies are packaged, in order to implement SSL with ALPN Netty (or its `tcnative-boringssl` component) requires `openssl` and `apr` libraries installed. If you are running Fedora 30 or later you need `libxcrypt-compat` also.

## Interactive Mode (CLI)

Test to verify Hyerfoil is functioning properly by using CLI.  

<span>1. </span> Starting the CLI
Go to the installation directory, then run the following command to start the interactive mode.

```
bin/cli.sh

```

<span>2. </span> Start an embedded server (controller)

```scala
[hyperfoil]$ start-local
Starting controller in default directory (/tmp/hyperfoil)
Controller started, listening on 127.0.0.1:41621
Connecting to the controller...
Connected!
```

This spawns a server in the CLI JVM. CLI communicates with it using standard REST API, though the server port is randomized and listens on localhost only. All the benchmarks and run results are also stored in /tmp/hyperfoil/ - you can change the directory as an argument to the start-local command.

e.g.

```scala

[hyperfoil]$ start-local test
Starting controller in /opt/test
Controller started, listening on 127.0.0.1:17755
Connecting to the controller...
Connected!

```

&nbsp;

Note: While the CLI might be convenient for a quick test or when developing the scenario, it’s not something that you’d use for a full-fledged benchmark.
